---
title: "VEEC Study Day 2022"
---

[More information here](http://dx.doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.17001.57447)

Recently, culling and replacement of dairy cattle has received a lot of attention in relation to the improvement of health and longevity of the producing animals. Further research into the perspectives of Dutch dairy farmers behind their culling decisions and strategies, their intentions to alter these strategies in near future was needed. The aim of this study was to determine the culling reasons for Dutch dairy cattle, identify farmersÕ culling strategies and if present, determine their intentions regarding alteration of indicated culling strategies. To this end, an online survey questionnaire was distributed nationally among the dairy farmers in the Netherlands and reported responses were analyzed. The body of the survey questionnaire consisted of four parts namely, (1) questions on recently culled primiparous and multiparous cows and frequent culling reasons, (2) statements and questions on culling strategies of the dairy farmers if present, (3) statements regarding intentions of respondents to alter their existing culling strategy, and (4) general questions regarding farm characteristics. It was shown that the most frequent culling reasons were related to problems with reproduction, udder health and claw health. Farmers had differences in reasons for culling primiparous and multiparous cows in the herd. Responses indicated that Dutch dairy farmers do consider formulating culling strategies based on certain rules of thumb involving most common culling reasons. Majority of the respondents also reported an intention to reduce the culling rate for better economic gain in the immediate future. On the other hand, the culling reasons as well as farm specific characteristics weak or no associations with the responses to culling strategy and intention statements. Self-reported culling rate of the farm suggested that farmers did not have a lot of room to decide when culling a cow considering lack of surplus replacement stock. This was also reflected in the respondentsÕ reporting that most culling decisions on their farm were considered unavoidable and they did not intend to alter the amount of replacement stock reared to reduce the culling rate. In conclusion, it was shown that Dutch dairy farmers generally cull cows for biological reasons (reproduction, udder, and claw health) although they have long term culling strategies. Therefore, whether longevity can be improved by altering culling rate, if most culling is unavoidable, remains to be an issue for the dairy industry.
